doc: Add Peripheral Sensor node Shield doc (#16508)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54l/peripheral_sensor_node_shield.rst

.. _peripheral_sensor_node_shield:

Developing with Peripheral Sensor node shield
#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral Sensor node shield is an extension for the :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>`.

> It is a testing shield with following sensors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a testing shield designed for evaluating I2C and SPI protocol drivers. 
It includes the following sensors:
```

I just noticed that (if I'm not mistaken) the line 16 seems to be a general remark. So it's probably better to move it here

* `ADXL362`_ accelerometer (SPI interface)
* `BMI270`_ accelerometer and gyroscope (SPI interface)
* `BME688`_ temperature, pressure, humidity and gas sensor (I2C interface with on-board pull-up resistors 4.7 kOhm).

>   It is targeted for testing I2C, and SPI protocols drivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+=========================+============+=================+
| P1.13                   | BMI270 CS  | Chip Select     |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.10                   | ADXL362 CS | Chip Select     |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.08                   | SPI MOSI   | Serial Data In  |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.09                   | SPI MISO   | Serial Data Out |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.06                   | SPI SCK    | Serial Clock    |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.14                   | GPIO       | SPI Interrupt   |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.11                   | TWI SCL    | TWI Clock       |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.12                   | TWI SDA    | TWI Data        |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+

.. figure:: /images/peripheral_sensor_node_assy.png
   :width: 350px
   :align: center
   :alt: Peripheral Sensor node assembly

   Peripheral Sensor node assembly

.. note::

>    The shield must be oriented in a way that allows its silkscreen to read the same way as PDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The shield must be oriented in a way that allows its silkscreen to read the same way as the PDK.
```

.. _peripheral_sensor_node_shield:

> Peripheral Sensor node Shield

Author: I think so.

#############################

> 

Reviewer: Also, shouldn't we mention the PSN sample in this article?

Author: It seems to me that in the other boards documentation there is no information about what applications or samples use them.

Reviewer: I think it's mostly because other shields can be used in multiple configurations, as far as I understand this shield is currently only applicable to Peripheral sensor node. 
The first sentence suggest that it's more of a general extension to nRF54L15.
Maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to just add:
``The Peripheral Sensor node shield is an extension for the :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>`, used to develop the Peripheral Sensor node application. `` < reference > (?)

not adding the reference as it won't work until the other doc is merged, plus it will break the build, but that's the general idea. What do you think?

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation, let's leave as is then :)

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

The Peripheral Sensor node shield is an extension for the :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>`.
It is a testing shield with following sensors:

   * ``ADXL362`` - Accelerometer (SPI interface)
   * ``BMI270`` - Accelerometer and gyroscope (SPI interface)
   * ``BME688`` - Temperature, pressure, humidity and gas sensor (I2C interface with on-board pull-up resistors 4.7 kohm).

>                   It is targeted for testing I2C, and SPI protocols drivers.

Reviewer 2: "It is targeted for..." is a general note related to the shield. What about removing spaces from the beginning of that line?

Author: Based on other documentation, it seems that this alignment should remain.
And Compliance test is green.

>                   It is targeted for testing I2C, and SPI protocols drivers.

Author: I added BMI270 to the link.txt.

Supply voltage - 1.8V

.. figure:: /images/peripheral_sensor_node_shield.png
   :width: 350px
   :align: center
   :alt: Peripheral Sensor node shield

   Peripheral Sensor node shield

Pin assignment
**************

> For the exact pin assignment, refer to the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the exact pin assignment for the nRF54L15 PDK, refer to the following table:
```

+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| nRF54L15 connector pin  | SIGNAL     | Shield function |
+=========================+============+=================+
| P1.13                   | BMI270 CS  | Chip Select     |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.10                   | ADXL362 CS | Chip Select     |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.08                   | SPI MOSI   | Serial Data In  |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.09                   | SPI MISO   | Serial Data Out |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P2.06                   | SPI SCK    | Serial Clock    |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.14                   | GPIO       | SPI Interrupt   |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.11                   | TWI SCL    | TWI Clock       |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+
| P1.12                   | TWI SDA    | TWI Data        |
+-------------------------+------------+-----------------+

Requirements
************

> 

Reviewer: I wonder if the entire section is necessary. Would it make sense for the screenshot to go under the pin assignment and then just to mention in a note box for better visibility the following:
``The shield must be oriented in a way that allows its silkscreen to read the same way as PDK.
The shield must not be rotated.`` ?

Author: We can do that.

Shield is an add-on that you can attach to the :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>` to extend its features and functionalities.

.. figure:: /images/peripheral_sensor_node_assy.png
   :width: 350px
   :align: center
   :alt: Peripheral Sensor node assembly

   Peripheral Sensor node assembly

The shield must be oriented in a way that allows its silkscreen to read the same way as PDK.
The shield must not be rotated.

> Building and programming
> ************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building and programming with Peripheral Sensor node shield
***********************************************************
```

> To build for the Peripheral Sensor node Shield, build for the compatible :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>` with the CMake ``SHIELD`` option set to ``pca63565``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build for the Peripheral Sensor node Shield on the compatible :ref:`nRF54L15 PDK <ug_nrf54l15_gs>`, use the CMake ``SHIELD`` option set to ``pca63565``.
```

> See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to provide CMake options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on CMake options, see the :ref:`cmake_options` documentation section.
```

> You can use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

>    west build -b nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15_cpuapp -- -DSHIELD=pca63565

Reviewer: Is this the correct build target? I think it was changed some time ago to nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp

Author: Thanks. Should be nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp.

> If you use the |nRFVSC|, specify ``-DSHIELD=pca63565`` in the **Extra Cmake arguments** field when `setting up a build configuration <How to work with build configurations_>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the |nRFVSC|, specify the ``-DSHIELD=pca63565`` argument in the **Extra Cmake arguments** field when `setting up a build configuration <How to work with build configurations_>`_.
```

> Alternatively, add the shield in the project's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can add the shield in the project's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file:
```

> .. code-block:: none

Reviewer: Can we also add this article to the release notes? I think it can go under Documentation section (at the very end).
https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-changelog.html#documentation (release-notes-changelog.rst)
It could say:
* Added the ``:ref:`peripheral_sensor_node_shield` `` page. 

The information about the shield support should also be included via a PR with the relevant code.

Author: Done
